you shall not circulate a false report
do not put your hand with the wicked to
be an unrighteous witness you shall not
follow a crowd to do evil nor shall you
testify in a dispute so as to turn aside
after many to pervert justice you shall
not show partiality to a poor man in his
dispute if you meet your enemies ox or
his donkey going astray you shall surely
bring it back to him again
if you see the donkey of one who hates
you lying under its burden and you would
refrain from helping it you shall surely
help him with it you shall not pervert
the judgment of your poor in his dispute
keep yourself far from a false matter do
not kill the innocent and righteous for
I will not justify the wicked and you
shall take no bribe for a bribe blinds
the discerning and perverts the words of
the righteous also you shall not oppress
a stranger for you know the heart of a
stranger because you were strangers in
the land of Egypt 6 years you shall sell
your land and gather in its produce but
the seventh year you shall let it rest
and live fallow that the poor of your
people may eat and what they leave the
beasts of the field may eat
in like manner you shall do with your
vineyard and your olive grove six days
you shall do your work and on the
seventh day you shall rest that your ox
and your donkey may rest and the son of
your female servant and the stranger may
be refreshed and in all that I have said
to you be circumspect
and make no mention of the name of other
gods nor let it be heard from your mouth
three times you shall keep a feast to me
in the year you shall keep the feast of
unleavened bread you shall eat
unleavened bread seven days as I
commanded you at the time appointed in
the month of Abib for in it you came out
of Egypt none shall appear before me
empty and the feast of harvest the first
fruits of your labors which you have
sown in the field and the feast of
ingathering at the end of the year when
you have gathered in the fruit of your
Labour's from the field three times in
the year all your males shall appear
before the Lord God you shall not offer
the blood of my sacrifice with leavened
bread nor shall the fat of my sacrifice
remain until mundi the first of the
firstfruits of your land you shall bring
into the house of the Lord your God you
shall not boil a young goat in its
mother's milk behold I send an angel
before you to keep you in the way and to
bring you into the place which I have
prepared beware of him and obey his
voice do not provoke him for he will not
pardon your transgressions for my name
is in him but if you indeed obey his
voice and do all that I speak then I
will be an enemy to your enemies and an
adversary to your aunt
for my angel will go before you and
bring you in to the amorite and the
hittites and the perizzites and the
Canaanites and the highlights and the
jebusites
and I will cut them off you shall not
bow down to their gods nor serve them
nor do according to their works but you
shall utterly overthrow them and
completely break down their sacred
pillars so you shall serve the Lord your
God and He will bless your bread and
your water and I will take sickness away
from the midst of you no one shall
suffer miscarriage or be barren in your
land I will fulfill the number of your
days I will send my fear before you I
will cause confusion among all the
people to whom you come and will make
all your enemies turn their backs to you
and I will send Hornets before you which
shall drive out the hive I to the
Canaanite and the Hittite from before
you I will not drive them out from
before you in one year lest the land
become desolate and the beasts of the
field become too numerous for you little
by little I will drive them out from
before you until you have increased and
you inherit the land
and I will set your bombs from the Red
Sea to the sea Philistia and from the
desert to the rhythm for I will deliver
the inhabitants of the land into your
hand and you shall drive them out before
you you shall make no covenant with them
nor with their gods they shall not dwell
in your land lest they make you sin
against me for if you serve their gods
it will surely be a snare to you
[Music]